Behavior questions:

1. Why Uber?
Uber is a company with ambition and moving fast. With Kalanick's aggressive attitude, Uber is expanding fast and invloves with so many interesting areas. Doing something new is really exciting.
Uber has so many experienced engineers. I am a rookie in software engineering area, I really appreciate the chance learning from experienced engineers and work on state-of-the-art technology.
This position is interesitng. Freight is a new evolving area, we can change this industry.

2. 3 pro and 3 con
Pro1: hard-working, able to finish all work
Pro2: easy-going and good at communication: TA experience and collrbaration with many professors
Pro3: ambitious and aggressive: learn things I want to learn and do things I want to complete

3. 问了我如何解决和他人的conflict，问了以前工作的内容
I will try to listen to his words first and ask experienced people for suggestions. I believe that communication is really important in this case. I want to make sure I understand all his concerns and stand from his/her point of view.
I will explain my thoughts on this, and seek if we have somehow similar understanding but solves it in a different way.

4. 要么问我在这方面的经历，或者是看法，或者是遇到这些问题我怎么处理的等等，问题太多了（估计超过十个），但每一个都没有特别深究，除非某些东西他很感兴趣，我记得的一些企业文化是: care your cumstom（如果你是backend或者infra那么你的cumstom很可能就是其他程序员），let the people do their jobs（大概就是说程序员有时候会被各种会议或者很多琐事打扰导致没法高效干本职工作），还问了我工作经历中有没有过significant impact。总体上这轮聊的也挺顺利的，因为他不问技术细节，所以就各种扯了。。
significant impact: academy, discovering an interesting phenomena and able to make sure the calculation is accurate as much as enough
non-technical: TA work, able to convince a company (Keysight, Agilent)donates 200,000 dollars equipment, much improves the lab status to state-of-the-art for undergraduates

5. 中心思想就是夸Uber好，想来，想在Uber成长。然后同时表示自己很乖，怎么oncall 加班都不生气，还喜欢帮组里重构代码。
no problem, I love learning new things.

6. Culture轮，感觉人还是很好，说来Uber5年了。然后觉得这里每个人都很聪明，干事也很强很疯狂。大概就是看我符不符合他们的文化吧。大概就是一定要表现出自己很狼性就行了，比如怎么喜欢科技啊，怎么喜欢重构组里代码啊，怎么喜欢写service doc啊，怎么喜欢oncall啊。
code refacotring is also important and highly seen in my research. When I work on different metrics of measuring the system, I need to reassemble some parts of codes, and always, I check if the codes generate the same results, make sure they it is not changing what we need.
Then slowly, we avoid less detours to the destinations.

7. 怎么处理冲突，如何看待feedback，最有挑战的项目，是否跟customer有交集，有哪些工作现在看来可以做得更好，等等
Conflict is normal. But I think it is a great way to understand each other. We hope there are some new thoughts from the group. Without it, the team is not making tremendous progress.
But the most important thing is communication. As long as we can clear some of our thoughts and figure out what we want in common, it is not hard to resolve.\
Feedback is important to improve from current state.
The most challenge project: my current Ph.D. project;

8. 想学到什么
State-of-the-art system level design, working style, ideas in Tech world and how Uber motivates employees to the new direction
How we find new business area and able to fit others' requirement, like how we care about customers (riders, drivers, other employees)

9. 第五轮：国人大哥bar raiser，闲聊，聊简历，问在工作中有没有帮着做过不属于自己责任的事情。
In group: maintain the server, update the software license,
TA: help organize the lab, train other TAs and effectively coordinate with course instructor about how to arrange every piece of lab

10. 谈了team work，怎么处理冲突，以及uber的culture这些问题
same as topic 7

11. 自我介绍你的一个比较自豪的project你们怎么合作 你在其中critical的achievement 现在来看你会做什么改进 你的motivation是什么 你想在uber学什么
Most highlighted project: my current Ph.D. project with my advisor, because we discover something people have not taken careful thoughts and accurately given enough results about it.
Critical achievement: from software selection, model set up, data verification, data collection, almost everything
What do I want to learn from Uber: state-of-the-art technology, working spirit, experience and devotion to the job

12. 跟manager聊了聊可能一起做的项目和我的想法，比较轻松，主要是让manager觉得我对他的项目有些新想法。


13. 你失败的项目
My master project with DOD.
